### Capacity Planning
As the resource requirements of your applications grow, you may need to consider expanding your cluster. A standard CKS deployment comes with three m5.xlarge worker nodes, but CKS supports increasing the size of these worker nodes as well as increasing the number of worker nodes in the cluster. 

Within the cluster itself, Kubernetes comes with [several standard tools](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-compute-resources-container/#resource-requests-and-limits-of-pod-and-container) for resource management. Resource requests are used mainly for scheduling decisions, while resource limits are thresholds that apply during execution. Containers exceeding their resource limits may be terminated. [Quality of Service classes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/quality-service-pod/) are assigned to pods based on their configured resource requests and limits, and pods that are assigned the Burstable QoS class will be given a higher priority than pods that are assigned the BestEffort class.

#### Grafana Dashboards
CKS provides several Grafana dashboards to assist with capacity planning. To access these dashboards, you can use the command `kubectl port-forward -n monitoring svc/grafana 3000:3000` and navigate in a browser to http://localhost:3000/.

The `Kubernetes / Compute Resources / Cluster` dashboard shows overall usage statistics for the cluster as a whole. It includes details such as memory, CPU, disk, and network utilization. The `USE Method / Cluster` and `Node` dashboards shows similar metrics but distinguishes by individual nodes. There are individually configured dashboards outlining health and performance of each component of the Kubernetes control plane (Kubelets, the Controller Managers, Scheduler, API Server, etc.). The `Kubernetes / Compute Resources / Pod` dashboard displays the resource usage for every pod in your cluster, allowing you to compare each pod's requested resources against the actual usage statistics. The `Kubernetes / Compute Resources / Node (Pods)` gives you similar information, but provides a filter for what specific node on which the pod is running.

The Grafana deployment includes several other dashboards that you may find useful for monitoring the health and usage of your cluster. We highly recommend taking a few minutes to see which dashboards are available and considering how they might help you make the best use of your cluster.