### What is CKS?

Everyone is excited about Kubernetes, [including us](https://datica.com/blog/datica's-gone-native-cloud-native/)! Datica is proud to offer a secure, compliant Kubernetes managed service with CKS (short for Compliant Kubernetes Service).

CKS stands for "Compliant Kubernetes Service". CKS is a managed Kubernetes service — which is a service that can be defined in a number of different ways. In the most basic form, a managed Kubernetes service assumes management of the control plane, a group of controllers that take care of routine tasks to ensure the desired state of the cluster matches the observed state. Because Kubernetes can be configured and deployed in a number of different ways, users are often confused about how to setup and manage a Kubernetes cluster. It is because of this problem that managed Kubernetes service providers exist. The biggest players in this space are the three large cloud service providers, Google Cloud Platform, Amazon Web Services, and Microsoft Azure. As Kubernetes adoption increases, so too is the need for a secure, compliant version of Kubernetes. Because much of compliance is tied to lower level security configurations, the need to manage the control plane is ever present in a world where compliance is present.

Although AWS's Elastic Container Service for Kubernetes (EKS) product recently became eligible for HIPAA compliance, that doesn't necessarily mean it is compliant. In order to ensure a cluster is defensibly compliant, a user would have to have develop a clear definition of everything the product does to ensure compliance (in a signed legal agreement) as well as have a BAA in place with the service provider. The only other option is for the user to be responsible for the configuration of the underlying cluster, the operating system that runs the cluster and the instances the operating systems lives on. The big cloud providers will provide sufficient descriptions and possibly even sign a BAA, but gaps remain. Configuring logging, monitoring, intrusion detection, networking, an operating system, as well as a whole slew of infrastructure level configurations defeats the purpose of a managed service — the primary benefit of a managed Kubernetes service is that a customer doesn't have to worry about such components or their intended configurations. If you're working within a regulated industry like healthcare you have almost zero efficient options when it comes to using Kubernetes — either you manage the control plane, the operating system and the underlying infrastructure to maintain the flexibility required for compliance, or you risk falling out of compliance by using a managed service (because they don't provide the configuration flexibility to achieve compliance).

This is where Datica's CKS comes in. In addition to managing the control plane, Datica also configures the underlying operating system (and manages it in perpetuity), configures the underlying instances — and installs, configures and manages a set of deployments required for compliance. These deployments include logging, monitoring, intrusion detection and antivirus software. In addition to the technical configuration, Datica assumes the liability for the complete stack in our BAA, something not available or possible with any other managed Kubernetes offering. CKS delivers a compliant managed Kubernetes service that functions like any other Kubernetes cluster, but one that comes pre-configured for compliance out of the box.
