### Compliance Monitoring

#### Intrusion Detection

Datica's CKS includes a [Wazuh](https://wazuh.com/) deployment for intrusion detection. It is configured to alert Datica's security team, which triggers an internal process for evaluating and addressing events, including customer escalation if necessary.

#### Vulnerability Scanning
Datica performs external vulnerability scanning for all production CKS clusters. Datica’s security team keeps track of alerts generated by Nessus and has protocols for evaluating and addressing events that occur, including a customer escalation protocol for application-specific events.

#### Volume Snapshots
Datica creates daily snapshots of all volumes attached to instances in your CKS cluster. These snapshots are kept for a minimum of two days, and are replicated across regions for redundancy. Snapshots older than two days are pruned automatically. These snapshots are intended for maintaining compliance by providing the ability to fully restore a volume from a snapshot. We encourage customers to be aware of their specific application needs in terms of data retention which may require other methods, frequencies, and retention policies for data recovery.

#### etcd Snapshots
Datica creates hourly snapshots of the [etcd](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/components/#etcd) state of your CKS cluster. These snapshots are kept for 7 days by default, and are replicated across regions for redundancy. Snapshots older than 7 days are pruned automatically by an AWS S3 lifecycle policy. These snapshots provide the ability, in an emergency situation, for Datica to restore your cluster state to any point in time within the past 7 days. For most scenarios using mechanisms such as [kubectl rollback](https://learnk8s.io/kubernetes-rollbacks) and [helm releases](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/) should be used to undo any changes made to objects in your cluster. Restoring cluster etcd state should be the last line of defense when encountering issues with the states of objects in a cluster.
